I've come on some trouble when parsing an Unicode character with Clojure. I know it's likely to be a problem related to Java and not Clojure itself but I'm looking for a Clojurish solution so that's why I'm posting it here. FYI, I have a GNU / Linux OS on the top on which I use emacs 24 in cunjunction with CIDER 0.10.0snapshot (package: 20150710.1304), Java 1.8.0_51, Clojure 1.6.0 and nREPL 0.2.6.

The first character of the Unicode block "CJK Unified Ideographs Extension B" is 𠀀 (hope you can properly read it, get a Chinese font otherwise). Emacs perfectly deals with it but in gedit, it's like this character would have the glyph you see (something like ㄛ but more angular) plus a negative space. In emacs it's displayed properly but when it comes to be evaluated, the behaviour is weird: 

``` Clojure
華文.core> (clojure.string/split "a𠀀a" #"\𠀀")
; => ["a" "a"]
華文.core> (clojure.string/split "a𠀀a" #"\u20000")
["a𠀀a"]
華文.core> (clojure.string/split "a𠀀a" #"[\u20000-\u2a6df]") ; it spans over Extension B
; => ["" "𠀀"]
```

Moreover:

``` Clojure
華文.core> \u20000
; => IllegalArgumentException Invalid unicode character: \u20000  clojure.lang.LispReader.readUnicodeChar
華文.core> (int \𠀀)
; => RuntimeException Unsupported character: \𠀀  clojure.lang.Util.runtimeException (Util.java:221)
華文.core> (format "%04x" (int \u3403))
; => "3403"
華文.core> (format "%04x" (int \u20000))
; => IllegalArgumentException Invalid unicode character: \u20000  clojure.lang.LispReader.readUnicodeChar
```

Finally here is a very annoying side-effect, just like an overflow: from 20000 it overlaps values from 0, so the whole legacy ASCII would be contained is this block.

``` Clojure
華文.core> (clojure.string/split "cabac" #"[\u20000-\u2a6df]")
; => []
華文.core> (clojure.string/split "cabac" #"[a-b]")
; => []
```

Then I don't really know how I could handle this character. I've picked haphazardly some characters and it seems to be the same mess above \u9999 :/

---

Thanks very much for your detailed explanation. From my viewpoint it's an issue that Clojure can't address directly characters not in the BPM so I'll create a ticket on Clojure GitHub to see whether it could be solved directly at the root ~

However, I'm still learning Clojure and I came to that question thanks to a pet project to help me practice those both new both langage and paradigm. I read « You need macros to overcome the limitation of functions when code is evaluated » so I feel one could write macro to extend what Clojure can do with characters. I'm unfortunately not well-used yet to programming them, could you give me some hints? – or would you know how to write it? ;-)

I've tried to figure out how is evaluated a character, say \u2312, but all I get is… not helping ~
華文.core> (macroexpand-1 '\u2312)
\⌒
華文.core> (macroexpand '\u2312)
\⌒
